>> Kyle Simpson: There is, however,
a downside to this approach.
To create a function like this which was
a declaration, we had to give it a name.
In this case bob, and that name was
included in the enclosing scope,
the very same scope that we were
trying not to pollute or collide with.
So now we have another race condition
between us deciding on a name that
somebody else won't try to collide with.
We need that name because we need it
on line 7 to invoke the function.
Does everybody follow this reasoning?
The good part is that we have a function,
but the bad part is oops,
we've got a name that's polluting things.
How do we square these two problems?
How do we create a scope but
not pollute a name?
There was a hint given earlier when
we talked about function expressions.
Remember what happens to the name
of a function expression.
So what I wanna observe first is line
7 is really two separate operations.
You recall earlier in the course
when we were talking about
the way a line 7 would execute is it's
first got to resolve the bob expression.
Look up whatever value is in it,
which in this case happens to be
a reference to a function, and then it
executes it with a parenthesis on line 7.
So let's think about it as
literally two separate operations.
I just put some parenthesis there to
emphasize the idea that the bob expression
gets evaluated first and
then we call the function.
If that's the case,
if we can think of that as an expression,
what if we just took the function bob and
put it in place of the variable
in that expression on line 7?
What if we literally just made
this from a function declaration
into a function expression?
All I've done is take that
function declaration bob and
put it in place of
the bob named expression.
Now, something subtle but
important has happened because it's no
longer a function declaration anymore.
It's just a function expression.
Why?
Cuz the word function is not literally
the first thing in the statement.
So it's a function expression,
which means that name bob is not gonna
pollute the outer enclosing scope anymore.
Now all of a sudden, that function
expression is just gonna sit there,
until on line 6, we have that second
set of parentheses that executes it.
This pattern has a name,
it's called an IIFE.
It stands for
Immediately Invoked Function Expression.
That parenthesis set there immediately
invokes the function expression that we
give prior in the statement.
If you'd like to read more about where
that name comes from, this blog post,
I think it's widely regarded to Ben Alman,
real big in the jQuery crew.
I think he still works for a consultancy
out of Boston [COUGH] in Bocoup.
He's widely regarded as
coming up with the name for
immediately invoked function expression.
We needed some name for this pattern.
We didn't have a good name,
so we're a creative bunch.
We just named it the IIFE.
So [COUGH] turns out this pattern is
actually one of the most important in all
of JavaScript, or certainly the most
prevalent in all of JavaScript.
It solves a big need.
We need to be able to create
scope in various places, but
we don't wanna pollute them with names.
We want that function to exist only for
the purpose of scope and
so we really just need it to run once and
be done.
That's exactly what the IIFE does for
us, okay?
>> Kyle Simpson: Some examples
of how people use IIFEs.
And by the way, I always like
to name my IIFEs, exactly for
the same reason that we talked
about naming function expressions.
You should name your IIFEs.
And if you can't come up
with some other good name,
at least use the name IIFE, okay?
But usually, there's some better name to
refer to that particular block of scope,
and that's especially true
if it's an entire file.
If the IIFE is wrapped around the whole
contents of a file, which is how it's most
commonly used, you can think about what
the contents of that file is doing.
Maybe those represent the customer
login utilities in your application.
Well, call your IIFE customer login
utilities, or something like that.
Give it a name that's
more self descriptive,
it'll show up in the stack traces,
etc, etc.
>> Kyle Simpson: But what's interesting
to me about IIFEs is that they really
are just regular function calls,
which means we can actually sort of import
identifiers from the enclosing scope.
Here I'm passing in the foo and
I'm giving it a different name.
That actually allows me to alias or to
rename things to be more convenient to me.
So one of the ways that I like to do this
when I wrap an IIFE around the contents
of, say, a file, I'll pass in the window
object, but I'll give it the name global.
So the argument will be
window down on line 6, but
the parameter name up on line 3,
I'll call it global.
That way, any place that I need to
say global dot in front of something,
that's a super glaring obvious neon sign
that says, this thing is on the global.
I just think the word global is
better than the word window.
Another place where this is often
used is with jQuery for example, or
other frameworks that like that
dollar sign variable name.
It's a nice short variable name but
lots of people wanna use it so
that creates collision if you are using
more than one of those utilities.
And how many of us love writing j capital
Q query throughout all of our code?
That's a terrible variable name.
So what you can do is pass
in the jQuery object or
whatever framework of your choice,
and call it dollar sign.
That way, within the context of your IIFE,
it will always predictably be that
dollar sign points at the thing
you wanted it to point at.
So it's nice and useful for
us to control our lexical main spaces
through the arguments and
parameters to our IIFEs.
Questions about the IIFE pattern?
>> Kyle Simpson: I mentioned that using
the IIFE pattern can also be useful
inside of loops.
This is a big hint to something we'll
be dealing with a little bit later
in the course.
Here I wanted to create a block
of scope inside of my for loop.
Why?
Because I wanted a different j for
each iteration.
So I made an IIFE inside of the loop and
then I've put a var j declaration there,
and that j is gonna get recreated for
each run of the for loop.
That'll actually turn out to be really
useful when we talk about closure later.
So we can put these IIFEs literally in any
place that we could put a statement if we
wanna create some scope there.
It's not as nice and
clean as, say a block, and
we'll get to block scoping in just
a moment, but it is the standard by
which we've created these blocks of
scope as we just make these IIFEs.
>> Speaker 2: So, I have a question.
Does the compiler actually
create a variable for the IIFE?
Or how does that work?
Or just in the run time?
>> Kyle Simpson: Well, this is definitely
still gonna get handled according to all
the rules that we talked about,
the theoretical rules that
we talked about about how compilers work
and how JavaScript is gonna be compiled.
So it would run across this function.
It would see that there was
a name identifier there.
It would need to step into that scope.
It would need to create a bucket.
It's called a lexical environment.
But it would need to create
a bucket like a blue bucket, and
the var j would be a blue
marble that was stuck in it.
All that stuff would still happen.
But it is true that the JavaScript engines
can see stuff like this and figure out
if there's a shortcut that they could do
to maybe not have to create a full lexical
environment if they know it's just gonna
only be there for a short period of time.
So there's always a reality difference.
There's always a difference between what
we theoretically say happens conceptually
and what physically happens.
And I can't tell you what physically
happens cuz I'm not a browser developer.
I don't know what they actually do.
But conceptually,
this runs through exactly the same
process as any other function.
>> Speaker 2: So in this case,
will there be five buckets for the IIFE?
>> Kyle Simpson: Again, conceptually we're
gonna be recreating a new bucket each time
we loop, all right?
But practically speaking,
the engine might be able to figure out,
you're gonna reuse the scope in each loop,
maybe I'll just create one, or
maybe I don't even need an environment.
I don't know how they actually do it.
That's an implementation
question that would be best
passed along to an engine developer.
But conceptually,
this would be five separate buckets.
We really should keep our attention on
the concept rather than getting too
worried about the implementation cuz
Firefox may do it differently than Chrome,
who does it differently than Edge.
Who knows, right?
We should focus on the concept and the
concept is we get a separate variable, and
we do that when we want
a separate variable.
If I didn't have the IIFE there,
if I just said var j on line 2,
how many js would there be?
>> Kyle Simpson: Just one, right?
Because that compiles and we'd find
the var j, we'd attach it to the enclosing
function scope, which would have been
in this case the global scope, right?
There's only gonna be one of those js.
Let's say we're in a situation
where we want a j for each loop.
This is how we have to do it.
Make sense?
So
think about the conceptual
requirements of your code and
less about the nitty gritty of
how an engine might influence it.